hi everyone laszlo Montgomery here again
still coming your way as always from the
China history podcast com rated one of
the top 100 China history related
podcasts in the world we sort of come to
you each week well not this time
featuring random topics from China's
thousands of years of history last week
we lingered around 1949 1950 and looked
at the first 12 months or so of the PRC
today we're going to move the dial back
just a little and cover the lives of
four individuals all Westerners who
committed their lives to the People's
Republic their commitment to the Chinese
nation was so strong that upon their
desk they received what amounts to one
of the greatest of honors and that is to
be buried in China's Bob Alshon cemetery
this cemetery located in western Beijing
is to China what let's say Arlington
National is to the American conscience
lots of harrows leaders and martyrs from
China have their final resting place in
this hallowed ground all four of these
people that we're going to discuss today
are more than worthy of their own
episodes but I thought I'd condense
everything down and look at them
collectively as a group of Westerners
who love China and share their final
resting places together in the city
whose founding went all the way back to
the times of Kublai Khan these four
foreigners who will look at today are
George hatem known in China is majida
Israel Epstein anna-louise strong and
Agnes smedley all China history
aficionados no doubt have heard of all
or most of them but just in case you
needed to brush up on exactly how they
made their mark or if you aren't
familiar with them at all today we'll
take a look at all for their lives and
how they ended up in China and why after
their desks China's leaders accorded
them this highest of honors before we do
that though let's look at baba shun
cemetery and briefly examine the history
of the sacred ground in
china and for the communist party the
whole name is the Popish on
revolutionary cemetery or papa shango
ming kong mu ah means 8-ball means
treasure and shan means mountain so it's
a treasure mountain the history this
place goes all the way back to the ming
dynasty there was a general named gunby
who served under the young Emperor who
we featured in CHP episode number 32 the
ming dynasty part 2 gun Bing was the
most loyal and favorite general of this
Emperor who reigned from 1402 to 14 24
so loyal and trustworthy was gampang
that the Emperor selected him to watch
over the Imperial Palace while he and
his entire entourage went out on one of
his many hunting expeditions up to the
north in Manchuria general gang accepted
this honor and very politically
sensitive job general Gong knew that
this trust that the young Emperor gave
him had a double-edged sword in that it
accorded him great honor and political
power but at the same time left him
vulnerable to the wiles and masa nations
of the eunuchs and other Palace
favorites who ate men like gumby for
lunch knowing that he would surely fall
victim to the accusations of well having
a go with one or two of the Emperor's
six dozen or so concubines while he was
away the evening before the young
Emperor left on his hunt general gung
castrated himself and as the story goes
placed his severed organ in a bag and
hit the package under the Emperor's
royal saddle the Ming Emperor then went
off on a splendid hunt and sure enough
when he gets back to the palace after
his outdoor expedition he is met with
whispers and hints and allegations that
general gangbang was having how shall I
say an inappropriate relationship with
one or several of the Emperor's
concubines when charged with this
accusation
general gang revealed everything and
when the severed genitals were retrieved
from the young Emperor saddle the truth
was known and heads rolled but not gang
bangs he was made the chief eunuch and
became a power at court until his death
in 1410 whereupon the young Emperor
declared him a god and he became a
patron saint of all UNIX a plot of land
was dedicated on the outskirts of
Beijing where Papa Shan stands today is
a final resting place for all UNIX and
this is what it remained for almost five
and a half centuries it was called the
UNIX temple in 1950 during the first
year after liberation it was renamed the
beijing municipal cemetery for
revolutionaries and then in nineteen
seventy it was given the name that we
know it today baba shan national
cemetery for revolutionaries not all but
many of the great heroes of the
revolution have their ashes interred
there including leaders such as generals
judah and ponga y yo shout cheese ashes
are also said to be interred at Baba
Shawn but so many questions remain
regarding his most tragic of deaths it's
not a hundred percent certain Leo's
ashes were in fact placed in this
National Cemetery but the party line
says they are so let's just go along
with that his elegant and distinguished
wife one guangmei who passed away in
2006 did have her funeral there chairman
mao of course occupies prime real estate
on the south end of Tiananmen Square and
Joanne lies ashes were spread over
various hills and valleys and dung Shao
Peng's ashes were scattered at sea so
they would not be found at babas on
let's look at the first of these
Westerners whose life brought them to
China where they selflessly serve the
Chinese people leading up to and after
the founding of the people's republic
will go in order of the year of their
death and begin with agnes smedley who
passed away in 1950 agnes smedley
something about that name is just
hard to forget here is a woman who lived
decades before her time she was an early
fighter for women's rights and many
other progressive causes that she
believed in she was an early proponent
for birth control that hottest of hot
button issues it was just as
controversial and the debate just as
heated back in the first half of the
20th century as it is today she came
from nothing I mean nothing she was born
if you look on a map literally in the
middle of nowhere in the small village
of osgood in northern Missouri that back
in her day had a little over 200 people
living there today there are less than
50 people who call Osgood their home
Edgar Snow who was not entered at Barbra
Jean but who also loved China and made
his mark there in the early decades the
People's Republic he was also from
Missouri but from Kansas City which I
might add is the hometown of none other
than professor Bob packet of history
according to Bob well he's from
Baltimore originally but now he's pure
Casey anyways so Agnes medley was born
1892 dirt-poor small town middle of
nowhere in 1901 she went from one
obscure town to another moving to the
mining town of Trinidad Colorado which
exposed young Agnes to the coal miner
strike 1903 1904 in 1910 her mother died
and after a while she ended up in Tempe
Arizona where she began her writing
career and it's as a writer that she
made her greatest contribution to China
she married in 1912 moved to San
Francisco and then in 1918 divorced and
moved to New York where she worked with
Margaret Sanger the famous birth control
advocate in sex education pioneer Agnes
smedley was a free spirit I don't know
how else to describe her before she
turned her sights in her heart to China
she first became involved in the Indian
independence movement she hung out with
all kinds of colorful left-wing
characters from the independence
movement even moving to Germany with one
of the movements leaders who she carried
out a relationship with
she opened the first birth control
clinic in Berlin and joined the American
Socialist Party 1926 in 1929 a year
after arriving in China she wrote an
autobiographical novel called daughter
of Earth you can read this book in its
entirety on google books if you're so
inclined after this she used her German
connections to land a job in Shanghai as
a writer for a German paper there Agnes
medley got herself mixed up with all
kinds of colorful and nefarious men
including both Soviet and Japanese spies
I'm not sure about the extent of the
spying that she was herself involved in
but she was certainly in the thick of
all that was going on in 1930s Shanghai
she continued her career as a writer
working with both German and UK papers
she became more and more involved and
all kinds of activities related to the
Chinese Civil War and was actually
present in Xi'an in December of 1936
when the Xian incident happened a
podcast for another day she became a
mouthpiece for the Communists who were
busy fighting both the Nationalists and
the Japanese she traveled with both the
eighth route army and the new 4th army
that made up the so-called red army
there she mingled with the likes of
Judah Lindy ow along Neil bought Chung
she became very close with all these
guys and was clearly passionate and
sympathetic to their cause however when
she applied for membership to the
Communist Party in China her application
was rejected no doubt because of her
fiercely independent spirits no one
could tame her not even the CCP so she
faced this disappointment but remained
committed to the cause of the revolution
between nineteen thirty eight and
nineteen forty one she was continuously
in the thick of everything going on in
China reporting from the front facing
down death and enduring all the
hardships that one might expect in the
middle of a war zone she got the word
out to the Western world about what was
going on in China and although a
supporter of the United Front she natch
he painted the Communist cause in the
most positive light the Communists like
Mao Joe and others couldn't do it by
themselves so they desperately needed
people like Agnes smedley to get their
story out and let the world know what
they were fighting for she moved back to
the United States and spent the greater
part of the 1940s writing about China's
revolution and hitting the road and
talking about everything she had
witnessed firsthand in China and this of
course got her in all kinds of trouble
back in those days openly showing
sympathy for any type of communist cause
was guaranteed to land you in trouble
and of course Agnes smedley was
definitely in the crosshairs of the FBI
and the US government authorities she
was essentially hounded out of the USA
and ended up in Britain in 1949 living
for a time at Oxford her whole life she
was afflicted with various mental
problems no doubt brought on by all the
pressures of her impoverished upbringing
and being such an open and free spare at
all her life this left her open to
attack and she was indeed targeted by
every side at one time or another
nonetheless she struggled with this and
kept moving forward but she died at the
age of 58 on may sixth nineteen fifty
Agnes medley new most all of China's
founding leaders she got the word out to
the Western world about the Communist
cause most importantly to the USA UK and
Germany China's leaders well they
wouldn't let her into the Communist
Party but nonetheless they accorded her
a great honor after liberation and
interred her ashes at Baba Sean cemetery
the next person I wanted to introduce as
Anna Louise strong her life had some
similarities with Agnes medley in that
she was a radical leftist was drawn to
the Soviet Union and later to China used
her voice and her pen to speak out on
behalf of socialism against the
downsides of capitalism and in support
of the common people who she time and
again glorified in her writings like
agnes smedley she was the target of the
establishment in the USA as i mentioned
in those days during the first half of
the 20th century it was a risky business
indeed and perceived in the US as very
unpatriotic to go around promoting the
things going on in Moscow and praising
Stalin and all the policies the Soviet
Union like Agnes medley Anna Louise
strong came from a small town she was
born and friend Nebraska about 45
minutes west on the i-80 from the state
capitol of Lincoln which some city folk
might argue was also in the middle of
nowhere she didn't come from money but
she was far from dirt poor she initially
made her mark in the leftist socialist
world when she was introduced to the
workers plight in the state of
Washington it was in Washington state
where she became involved in the labor
movement promoting social services for
the poor and underprivileged and railing
against the establishment and capitalism
she was also an outspoken pacifist and
made a considerable effort to speak out
against the draft during World War one
in 1921 after the Great War she ended up
in Poland and later the Soviet Union
like Agnes smedley she reported from
these far-flung places and gave her
observations which were rather
sympathetic to the policies of Lenin and
later Stalin in Russia she found her
calling in life and wrote prodigiously
about the Soviet experiment and
everything they were trying to do to
remake society she ended up planting
some roots in the new Russia and stayed
a while she spoke out strongly through
her writings against the Trotskyites
during the great purge in the Soviet
Union and this of course and dared her
to Stalin later in the 1920s she ended
up in China where she met two people who
had a great influence on her and who
were primarily responsible for her later
personal commitment to China these were
Joann lie and the second of the two
songs sisters song Ching Ling you
remember the song sisters forever
immortalized by Chairman Mao when he
said one loved money one loved power and
one
of China and it was song Ching Ling wife
of Sun yat-sen who was the one who loved
China anna-louise strong returned to
Moscow after her brief stay in China and
remained active in supporting the
policies of Stalin and started the first
english-language newspaper in Moscow she
was a very prolific writer churning out
many books and articles all of which
attempted to explain what was going on
in the Soviet Union and of course
everything was sympathetic of Stalin's
policies she remained there until
nineteen thirty-six writing and
promoting the socialist system like
Agnes smedley however she ultimately
became disillusioned with the kind of
thing Stalin began doing in the 30s with
all the purges killing her writings
later on became particularly sympathetic
to the Communist cause in China she met
many of China's leaders while staying in
Moscow anna-louise strong began to more
and more praise Mao and his growing
contribution to communism she was I
believe the only reporter in the 1930s
granted access to my land got the word
out during the Civil War she was very
outspoken against the Nationalists in
general and John kai-shek in particular
railed against us support of this regime
it was during an interview with Anna
Louise strong during the Chinese Civil
War that Mao first uttered the phrase
paper tiger jalaja this is one of the
most famous Mao isms that became part
and parcel of the mild brand ma was
trying to show how these fearsome things
like the u.s. in general and later on
the atom bomb were far from being Tigers
you know a metaphor for something
dangerous that could kill or destroy by
referring to these things as paper
tigers Mao was saying they're not nearly
as dangerous in reality as they seem in
real life anyways the term paper tiger
is something that Mao was the first to
say and it was Anna Louise strong who
first wrote these famous words in one of
her articles she thought Maya was great
Joe and I to
these two leaders really liked her and
trusted her for the support she gave
them and getting out all these positive
vibes about what they were trying to
build in the new China Stalin on the
other hand being the alpha male and the
world of communism didn't want to see
any rivals being groomed or coddled by
Western reporters so after she wore out
her welcome and after she was charged
with espionage Stalin had her deported
in 1949 she returned to the US but her
political views had branded her up
radical which back in those days was
such a good thing she had been such a
prolific writer of socialism and of
everything going on in the Soviet Union
her work appeared in all the major
radical left-wing papers and journals of
the day she also wrote several books
documenting her experiences so although
the fringe left embraced her the
mainstream soda saw her as a kook so she
didn't really feel to welcome back in
the US back in those days having these
extreme left views could get you locked
up in prison it's not like today where
extreme views either on the right or the
left have become sort of mainstreamed
anyway she remained in the u.s. until
nineteen fifty-eight her passport had
been cancelled and she was the constant
target of attacks and put up with all
the usual inconveniences of being a
communist sympathizer in the decade of
the 1950's once her passport was
restored in 1958 thanks to the Supreme
Court case of rockwell kent vs john
foster dulles she picked up and moved to
china and basically that's where she
stayed until the end of her days the
amazing thing about anna louise strong
was that she remained a revered figure
in china amongst the law by shing the
common people as well as china's leaders
and even during the Cultural Revolution
when so many foreigners like her friends
Israel Epstein Sidney rittenberg for
example who had always spoken out on
behalf of Mao the revolution had
suffered and fell from grace but Anna
Louise strong was
never targeted by the Red Guards and
remained in mouths good graces
throughout the entirety of the Cultural
Revolution in fact she was even allowed
to become an honorary home waiting or
Red Guard in the end during the last
decade of her life she had sort of
become China's official spokesman to the
english-speaking world 1962 should
became writing a series of columns
called letter from China something
Joanne lie had coaxed her into doing
this column was sort of a window into a
world that was practically sealed shut
from the West she remained a friend to
all communists meeting ho chi minh and
other leaders of the socialist world in
1965 she had an 80th birthday party
which both mall and joe attended that
alone sorta speaks to how revered how
special of a person she was in china she
died in march 29 1970 and was given a
very large public funeral and her ashes
were interred at baba Shawn and I'm sure
she and Agnes smedley had a whole bunch
to talk about afterwards now let's look
at George hot Tim another sacred cow in
the pantheon of famous Lawai from
Chinese history George hate em better
known in China as majida was a physician
his signature claim to fame amongst a
number of achievements was that he was
the first foreigner to be granted
citizenship in China after 1949 he was
born shafiq George hatem on September 26
1910 in buffalo new york he was of
lebanese ancestry his father nachum
salama hatem came from the village of
hamana in lebanon about 26 kilometres
east of beirut he received his medical
training in the US Europe and in Beirut
and through the relationships he had
made along the way he and a couple of
his colleagues found themselves in Asia
and in 1933 ended up in Shanghai
arriving around September 5th there in
Shanghai he set up a medical practice
and took
Chinese name maheeda and hung out with
the likes of Agnes medley Rui ally
Israel Epstein who will look at in a
moment and other noted communists he
practiced in Shanghai for a few years
but closed up shop after becoming
disillusioned with the whole scene there
the corruption misery I mean 1930
Shanghai was not the place for a good
honest idealist trying to do some good
for society so with the help and
influence of song Ching Ling Madame Sun
yat-sen he ended up in shaanxi province
in Xi'an where he provided health care
to the Communists who had ended up there
after the long march there he hung out
with the likes of Edgar's snow and all
the communist leaders Mao Zedong was
notorious for shunning medical care and
any and all doctors but back then George
Hatton provided medical services to the
Chairman I think he may have been the
only Western doctor to have this claim
to fame what is there to say except that
this guy was a saint he was a Western
doctor who truly personified the term
we're aiming fool he along with the
immortal Canadian dr. Norman Bethune
served the people selflessly attending
to the sick and wounded and using their
channels to provide medical services to
the Chinese up in the north he was there
when the dixie mission arrived in yen on
in july 1944 will cover the dixie
mission in another podcast essentially
this was a diplomatic mission on behalf
of the US where feelers were sent out to
see if the Communists were people that
the American government could work with
as we all know we ditch these efforts in
favor of full support for the
Nationalists mahadev George hatem
continued to serve the communists as a
doctor throughout the entirety of the
chinese civil war and after liberation
in 1949 he remained in china serving in
an official capacity of public health
care he is credited with leading
campaigns that wiped out leprosy in
China
help to eradicate venereal diseases in
1986 he was presented with the Alaska
medical award which is an honor given
since nineteen forty six to those who
have gone above and beyond the norm in
the field of basic medical research in
presenting the award the alaska
committee noted that quote dr. Maas
contributions can be compared in
importance to the eradication of yellow
fever and the bubonic plague and as a
model for the public health control of
venereal diseases they stand alone
George hatem mahadev spent the rest of
his days in China working tirelessly in
the field of Public Health he was active
in politics and using his influence and
position to advance public health and
hygiene in China after China opened up
again in the 1980s he served as a member
of the Standing Committee of the CPPCC
the good old chinese people's political
consultative conference which you might
recall from the last episode he died in
Beijing at the age of 78 1988 I remember
the day well was a about a year before I
moved to Hong Kong he was accorded a
multitude of honors and of course was
given one of the ultimate honors and
having his final resting place in Baba
Shawn cemetery he truly lived a great
life last but not least let's look at
Israel Epstein with a name like that
it's a dead giveaway what his ethnic
background was he was a Polish Jew born
in Warsaw on April twentieth nineteen
fifteen there weren't too many
foreigners who went on to be accepted
into the Communist Party in China but
Israel Epstein was among the chosen ones
no pun intended like Agnes medley and
Anna Louise strong Israel Epstein is
remembered as a friend of China who
helped get the word out to the
international community about the
transformations that were going on in
China during the 1930s up until his
death six years ago in 2005 like many
Jews who faced persecution after the
Bolshevik Revolution Israel Epstein's
family
owned up in 10 Jing one of the few safe
havens in China he was two years old
when his parents moved there and at the
young age of 15 he had begun his career
as a writer and journalist like the
other three people I've introduced he
knew all the leaders and throughout his
long career had interviewed them all as
with Anna Louise strong Epstein's
champion in China who brought him
together with the top leadership was
none other than song Ching Ling it was
madam son who established the China
Defense League in 1938 the purpose of
this organization was to publicize
China's dire situation in the late 1930s
after the Japanese began running a muck
in China so effective was he in getting
the word out bringing a lot of heat on
the Japanese that he became a marked man
and famously had to fake his own death
in order to get the Japanese secret
police off his case he was a longtime
friend and colleague of Edgar snow who
will cover one day in another podcast
Edgar snow is best known for his magnum
opus red star over China in fact it was
Israel Epstein who got to see and
critique the manuscript first before the
book was published so he was part of the
gang of true believers who lived in
China during the Civil War and were
committed to getting the word out by
what Mao was trying to accomplish like
all of these committed communists he was
often branded as an apologist for the
CCP pretty much with the exception of
half a dozen years between 1944 1951
when he lived in Britain and the u.s.
Israel Epstein's entire life was spent
in China he came back in 1951 upon the
request of his longtime friend Madame
son song Ching Ling who asked him to
become the editor for the world famous
magazine China reconstructs which I used
to read religiously back in the 1980s
well this journal was more or less
filled with CCP propaganda but it was
nonetheless a window into a world that
during the 50s and
stays was as hermetically sealed as
today's North Korea in 1957 Israel
Epstein became a Chinese citizen and in
1964 he joined the Communist Party of
China this turned out to be a
double-edged sword in that during the
Cultural Revolution he wound up in
china's version of Lefortovo prison
which in beijing is the notorious ching
chong genu ching chong prison he had
plenty of company there Sydney
rittenberg did time there as well as
leaders such as boy oh boy father of the
rising star in China now bashe lie as
well as Punk John he ended up in ching
chong prison due to some trumped-up
charges that he had plotted against jo
ann lai premier Joe issued an apology
epstein upon his release and despite the
time spent there in solitary confinement
he'd never wavered from the cause of the
Communist Party and remained a loyal
member up until the end like George
hatem Israel Epstein was a member of the
Standing Committee of the CPPCC and he
continued to write to speak out
positively about the PRC and was as much
a friend to the leaders as the others
i've mentioned he was personally friends
with mah with joe dung Xiaoping Johnson
mean and who Jintao in fact when he
officially retired in 1985 dung Xiaoping
personally attended his retirement party
and when he passed away quietly in
Beijing and may 26 2005 his funeral was
held at Papa John's cemetery and in
attendance was no less than the
president of China himself Eugene Tom
also in attendance were Premier Wen
Jiabao and other party luminaries such
as ja Ching lean and lee chong chon
there were more than just these four who
I've mentioned who China's leaders
depended on to spread the word and help
polish China's international image
especially prior to china's opening up
to the outside world in 1978-79 the list
is long but today we only covered those
whose graves can be visited
at Barbra Jean cemetery these were four
lives that not only witnessed modern
Chinese history but actually helped play
a role there's a lot more I could have
said about each one but for this episode
I only wanted to make you aware of them
and touch briefly on their lives and why
they were laid to eternal rest in such
an important place as baba Shawn Agnes
medley Anna Louise strong and Israel
Epstein were all prolific writers and if
you're interested you could go on the
Google or the Baidu if you don't have
the patience to deal with all the Google
related issues if you're in China and
you could check them out and this will
lead you to a plethora of their writings
I guess some of the stuff may seem a
little dated but go check them out if
you would like to read more about them
and more of what they wrote well that's
about all I have for you today as i
write this i'm sitting here on the
thirtieth floor of the guangzhou weston
it's canton fair time here so there are
foreigners galore and all the prices of
the hotels and hotel services and train
tickets are all jacked up as usual i'm
heading back to LA tomorrow night and
with that i will put the final ! on this
month of travel that hong kong trip at
the beginning of October when I uploaded
the episode on the San Juan wildy the
three sovereigns and five Emperor's
seems like ages ago I'm looking forward
to getting back to the ussa and falling
back into my normal routine I apologize
for making y'all's wait as long as I did
for this episode it's a little dicey
trying to pump out these podcasts from
the road without my China history
podcast library to rely on and
everything you've read about the
internet here in China is true as I
think I've mentioned from time to time
I'm barely an amateur when it comes to
the technical aspects of cyberspace so
things like VPNs are still a mystery to
me and as a result I couldn't even send
out a message on Twitter to advise my
followers about the
lay one last thing before i leave you i
know i plugged these guys a lot but if
you haven't done it yet please go check
out the October twelfth episode of the
Seneca podcast featuring the inimitable
and always interesting Kaiser gua this
particular show features both David
Moser and Jeremiah Jenny to real China
history specialists as opposed to your
humble and amateur narrator hair go
check it out and listen to 57 minutes
and 22 seconds of three very smart and
intelligent China hands discuss Sun
yat-sen and the shin hye revolution I
promise you a very fine program that's
it folks I'm going to go head out now to
good old civic plaza across the street
here with my colleagues from ningbo and
gorge myself on some sushi and japanese
vittles all on the company credit card
of course I wouldn't have it any other
way this is laszlo Montgomery signing
off and letting you know we'll be back
to normal next week whatever that means
and it's my most secret hope that you'll
join me next time for another dare i say
exciting episode of the china history
podcast thanks for listening